Gwenevere Abriel: Justin. Justin Alan Kay Jay Williams Justin downwind.
Gwenevere Abriel: Hey how she tell me
Jay: What it's doing better.
Jay: I didn't grow up again. Yeah. And yesterday after that.
Gwenevere Abriel: No, just that one time.
Jay: This is the one time. Yeah.
Jay: In the mornings I don't know why it's a wake up in my stomach is real sour and real
Jay: Like easily triggered.
Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, you have so much going on. It's really, it's difficult for me to see the, the origin, the etiology of it's hard to see. You have so much that could be contributing to it.
Gwenevere Abriel: If there was none of the liver going on.
Gwenevere Abriel: The just the anxiety of the unknown OF THIS COURT HEARING alone would have a somatic psychosomatic response it this part, the throat chest this core part of our body reacts to things. That's significant.
Gwenevere Abriel: And it could be causing upset stomach it's real, this stuff really happens. Our stump this gut brain access isn't incredibly refined in its connection so
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't
Gwenevere Abriel: But I don't, I don't know how to pull it apart. So I say let's let's let's attack it at every angle. Let's get the physician. Let's get the specialist. Let's do the psychological stuff. Let's eat good healthy foods. Let's come out in every way we can
Gwenevere Abriel: Right.
Jay: I've tried everything. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
Jay: I don't think I don't think I've drink a Coke and probably four months.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm so glad that stuff is just pure poison. There's no food in that food.
Jay: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. All right. Let me get a note for note open for you in here.
Gwenevere Abriel: As I'm opening up this note, J. So sort of tune in were to you and sort of identify
Gwenevere Abriel: Maybe something that you experienced in group, you know that that share. We don't get to share too much in there but you had shared something in there.
Gwenevere Abriel: You know, around the thoughts of the cravings and what to do and things like that. Or maybe just go in inside and kind of see, see what you want out of today.
Gwenevere Abriel: Just take some time and open up this know take a few minutes and really think about it what you want. I'm interested in that.
Jay: Like as far as like, what, how I want my day to turn out.
Jay: Like what
Jay: After what I want
Gwenevere Abriel: After today what you want from today either from from today or how you want to feel after our work together from the therapy from our income.
Jay: After the session. Okay. I thought you meant like how am I going to tackle the big I tell my gunner. Am I going to do for the day.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah you know less about what I want more about what you want from it with that steer us and guide us
Gwenevere Abriel: You have a sense of what you want from today, Jay.
Jay: I'm trying to write it down.
Gwenevere Abriel: Take your time.
Jay: Okay, I put what do I want from therapy.
Jay: I just put I'm just trying to put the tools that I've learned in action.
Jay: And then
Jay: I pull. What do I want from the day I'd like to stay busy cutting hair.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you trust yourself with that money.
Gwenevere Abriel: That
Gwenevere Abriel: We
Jay: Are with $50 I put back $50 after I made my first. I don't know 75 or so because I still need to change. So I just put the 50 away.
Jay: Because more hair. The next day,
Jay: At my $15 in change.
Jay: What's the best way
Jay: To about 1514 $15
Gwenevere Abriel: And you wanted to get a stereo system like how much was the price point on a on a good one that you want.
Gwenevere Abriel: No.
One.
Gwenevere Abriel: Shifting gears.
Jay: Well, me and my mom because she keeps asking me, what, what am I saving the money for and I really don't have an answer. It's the first time in my life where I've ever had that problem.
Jay: While making money and I have nothing to spend it on
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, that's
Jay: What I got everything I need. I'm trying not to be materialistic stuff.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So I heard you. And let me echo this back I want
Gwenevere Abriel: To
Gwenevere Abriel: Put
Gwenevere Abriel: Tools.
Gwenevere Abriel: I learned into action.
Gwenevere Abriel: Tools, you've learned just tell me a couple or all of them, and then we'll start there.
Jay: I don't think I could physically tell you, hey, this is the tool that I use to not get high. But I could tell you my thought process. Good.
Jay: You know, I just know that what it's done to me, where
Jay: Where I'm going to go in on the type of person that
Jay: Was I get hiding and
Jay: That's the kind of luck. I have and I know that and you know before I really didn't care. I just want to get high. I just wanted to do my do me. You know what I mean. And this time being sober.
Jay: I tried to approach it from a
Jay: I'm doing good. I feel good.
Jay: I attitude, you know, to me, because if I can keep that attitude. The whole time on cutting these people's hair why they're doing their thing and it's not going to bother. It's those times that I get down to myself that I did.
Jay: You know, angry, sad.
Jay: Stuff like that. You know, I mean, that's when you're Brian Moore says
This bubble
Jay: You know what I mean.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, so let's go, let's go for a second to angry, sad.
Gwenevere Abriel: And powerful that awareness that you have these are called emotional triggers and that is what everybody goes through when things are good. There's also people that that good isn't good enough. And they go, Oh, I can have it even better.
Gwenevere Abriel: So for you, though. What I heard is sad and angry have been a trigger.
Gwenevere Abriel: That it could lead you to because it probably has in the past. There's a lot of neurological connections to that where you've used to escape into that euphoria before. So right now, you're using the skill of of negative consequence you remembering what you're doing is you think through
Gwenevere Abriel: Because you broke up just a little bit on the on the tele health. So I gotta make sure I heard the last word. I think what you're doing is you're thinking through if I use
Gwenevere Abriel: The next day I will feel sick. I think you said
Gwenevere Abriel: Did you say that or day make that up. Okay. Yeah. Okay.
Jay: I just I just know that things that follow.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah.
But
Gwenevere Abriel: Believe it or not. The more specific you are, the better. So
Gwenevere Abriel: What are
Jay: I just I just know once I get a high, they're gonna pop up his chest on in the next day at my look. I'm looking at it like that and I'm looking at, like, I'm actually enjoying what I'm doing. I'm not getting high.
Jay: I'm getting along with my family.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: They're two different ones that
Jay: What did you call the first one, negative one.
Gwenevere Abriel: negative consequences.
Jay: Consequence. No, you said
Jay: Two words negative something
Jay: Where I look back
Gwenevere Abriel: A negative reinforcement.
Gwenevere Abriel: So it's like, so what
Gwenevere Abriel: If like
Good. What
Gwenevere Abriel: We're trying to figure out what word and I seem to have lost my own word, but it may come up again. If it's like a seat belt. So when we get in a car. We got beat the beat beat beat so something negative is happening.
Gwenevere Abriel: Much to get you to do the right thing, something negative happening. They get to do the right thing. So watch. I'm going to have diarrhea my bones will egg. I'll be throwing up I'll be hot, cold sweats, I'll be anxious, the PPP when you mind goes here. It reinforces do the right thing.
Gwenevere Abriel: When you get back and you think about the negative it reinforces that you do the right thing.
Gwenevere Abriel: So it's an amazing tool that is thinking things through.
Gwenevere Abriel: And that does take time. So the again, you know, I'm a big advocate for not having that that opiate nearby because that thinking through
Gwenevere Abriel: Even though it's a fraction of a second, it still still does take time. So I don't want anyone to stick it in your pocket.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, I got my lecture I'm over with it. So let's go. So we're going to call it if you want a negative reinforcer so negative BB BB BB BB was watch it actually shaped your behavior because watch beep beep beep beep beep.
Gwenevere Abriel: Don't want the beep beep beep beep beep. I'm going to do the right thing, it's shaping the behavior which is
Gwenevere Abriel: I got up today. I got excited I reviewed on my list of clients I reviewed my list of people that need a follow up call. I double checked our my sister. Are they sharp. Are they clean or they debt.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's the behavior. You're I think you want more of
Jay: It reinforced walkability
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you're happier you're connecting. I think you're spending more time, tell me again with with your mom, who else you spending time with or if it's just mom. Tell me what that relationship is like these days.
Jay: I mean,
Jay: Half the time on these things, you know,
Jay: What I'm telling her
Jay: You know, to me,
Jay: But she made sure to tell me every day that she's proud of me.
Jay: Constantly
Jay: my step dad.
Jay: Last night.
Jay: You were surprised me.
Gwenevere Abriel: Kind of cool. How long has it been since your mom was bragging about you.
Gwenevere Abriel: So positive reinforcement are the positive things like I'm I enjoy. I remember hearing my mom brag about me. I enjoy seeing my step dad because you've got a lot of history with him right so
Gwenevere Abriel: Seeing his face. He's like, whoa, that's nice, right, he's right. And that was all you, and you wouldn't be doing that if you were Slinging dope.
Gwenevere Abriel: Or if you were out on the street, you wouldn't be doing that because that that that's not fast money that's hard earned that's hard earned reward what you're doing.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's good stuff.
Gwenevere Abriel: But it does take responsibility. It means follow up calls it means you know not not allowing this stuff.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I want to talk more about this one when I get down on myself.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'd like to know more about that.
Gwenevere Abriel: And with the overall
Gwenevere Abriel: We just get this thought out with the overarching goal of today that there be a review of what the tools are and a way of sort of practicing them and putting them into action. So there'll be sort of this invitation. Maybe homework or something like that, so that we can
Gwenevere Abriel: Do them review them so that you can remember them in real time. When you're faced with sad, angry, or being down on yourself that they're remembered because this stuff's hard to remember because you haven't done it much.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so let's go into when I'm down on myself. Can I hear your the sequence of thoughts that you go through
Jay: I couldn't take you to the sequence sometimes
Jay: It just depends. Sometimes I can go from blacking out to tunnel vision.
Jay: You know, the hot bass hot tea and it's the same process of whenever I get mad.
Jay: Sometimes not all the time. It just depends on how let down. I am, I guess.
Yeah.
Jay: Like whenever I send out my girl number. I told you about that on my girl was texting or at
Jay: And I got that tunnel vision and stuff. It wasn't immediately anger know immediately.
Jay: Grief was like
Jay: Right away my body just get hot, and I just feel a wave of rush over me and that's whenever I get tunnel vision.
Jay: Man, I got mad when I started texting back with the original emotional words.
Gwenevere Abriel: So actually the original which is really neat J. You have this gift for being able to go to the body. First, and it's cool, because that does React first so your body has this reaction which is
Gwenevere Abriel: Heat
Gwenevere Abriel: Now, it, it sounds like in some ways you do a you do a dissociative response you do sort of dip out of consciousness.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now, interestingly,
Gwenevere Abriel: We really can't fight when we're in that we can't advocate for ourselves when we're dissociated
Gwenevere Abriel: So you you return to anger this defense position, which is an act. It's mobilization, so that'll get you texting yelling fighting and taking action in your life.
Gwenevere Abriel: So a part of me is kind of glad that you don't completely
Gwenevere Abriel: You know, split into another personality. I mean, maybe you do. I don't know yet, but I'm glad that at least you can rally the mobilization into anger. Okay, so maybe the next person might say that's a bad thing, but I don't. I like when anger is around
Gwenevere Abriel: Because there there's movement.
Gwenevere Abriel: But I am kind of curious that the first response is
Gwenevere Abriel: You said blackout.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is that like like check out like like you literally are spaced out
Jay: Yeah, kinda, you're just like, Okay, like your mind's blown, you know, everything's just like
Jay: limbo, you know, that moment right before something bad happens where you're like, you know, maybe you see your life. That's what I picture when people say my last life last performance at the moment when you're behind your own eyeballs back your head. You know what I mean. That makes sense.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is that shock.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is that you are now.
Jay: Yeah, yeah. I mean, there's
Jay: No.
Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right.
Jay: anything happened to me. What about my fellow my grandma passed away.
Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: OKAY TO ASK YOU CALLING IT grief there too. So maybe it's its loss of of love is that that shock grief response. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: I just want to write down some of these these really important words. So we have this sense of blackout.
Gwenevere Abriel: Tunnel vision hot face.
Gwenevere Abriel: When
Gwenevere Abriel: Sig near frequently let down and then
Gwenevere Abriel: Grief
Gwenevere Abriel: Much like when last
Gwenevere Abriel: So,
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, why don't we. Let's see.
Gwenevere Abriel: What if today was more about doing some processing and not as I know what you wanted was to put
Gwenevere Abriel: Put skills into action. But you have so much trauma history. Jay, I clinically think that we're going to need to work through maybe sometimes we work on tools and skills and other times we do a grief processing and trauma processing. Would that be okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So today. Why don't we do a little bit of the processing. So let's do a little bit if we get to be him. Dr. Great. This this bit at age 15
Gwenevere Abriel: Right now it just how distressing. It is, it's just sitting here because it's a random number. But how distressing from zero to 100. Is it just talking about this age 15 loss with grandma.
Jay: That's probably one of the worst times of my life.
Gwenevere Abriel: Feeling right now.
Jay: That harder.
Jay: I took that harder. They were my cousins got shot that's, I mean,
Jay: That's when I really started not to care you know back then. I was getting high. I was being a kid, you know,
Jay: Whenever that happens whenever I started
Jay: You know, thinking I can sell math and you can get people on board with gone. You know, I just graduated to a whole different level.
Gwenevere Abriel: Dang. OK, so
Gwenevere Abriel: Now what I have on my thermometer here is that was
Gwenevere Abriel: Age 11 when you saw your cousins.
Gwenevere Abriel: And
Gwenevere Abriel: This loss of grandma was even more significant is that right
Jay: I think, yeah, I took that harder than. Okay. Right. I think I might my cousin getting shot have more influence on my life. Does that make sense.
Gwenevere Abriel: I took that heart Grandma I took harder, that's when I really started not to care.
Gwenevere Abriel: And now age 11. This is what what I wrote age 11 I saw three of my cousins get murdered rolled up to the park and they sprayed the car with gunshots. I was the only survivor the emotion confused. I never cried and miss the funeral, but went to the wake. The first time I saw violence.
Gwenevere Abriel: That I have up in 100
Gwenevere Abriel: But I can move these things around there might be multiple one hundreds, there might be a 99 I can put a number, whatever this this story about about grandma this loss.
Gwenevere Abriel: How are you, what number is it right now for you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
Jay: I don't want to change it.
Jay: I don't know, I just took it harder I cried for days I you know I mean I took in high school.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh my gosh.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh,
Gwenevere Abriel: What do you miss about being around her.
Gwenevere Abriel: Just hanging out.
Jay: I didn't even get to tell it to buy
Gwenevere Abriel: Have you had a chance to actually write a letter by letter to her. Have you done that.
Jay: I did that.
Okay, good.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you miss her. Well, that's beautiful and and
Gwenevere Abriel: Playing cards. What, what did you play with her what she likes to do with you.
Jay: All the dinner.
Gwenevere Abriel: Volunteer you guys would sit there and play solitaire
Gwenevere Abriel: Who else do you play cards with
Jay: Just play cards.
Gwenevere Abriel: That quote, you know, we forget what people did we forget the things they did, but we remember how we felt around them that my Angela home quote
Gwenevere Abriel: How did you feel when you're around her.
Jay: Happy
Gwenevere Abriel: Did you feel safe and accepted as well.
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Where else do you get those feelings.
Gwenevere Abriel: You know you want to tell yourself and people keep trying to label you
Gwenevere Abriel: Right. People that have that kind of connection with love the way you're feeling right now.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm not seeing it. I'm not seeing those labels that you've been assigned when you were a little boy, you know, when you were, you were saying be cut the head off because you thought it was the same.
Gwenevere Abriel: You know, it's a past. I'm not seeing that right now. I'm seeing someone who loves deeply who feels empathy.
Gwenevere Abriel: Who cares about others.
Gwenevere Abriel: Do you believe that about you to that you care about people.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's risky because we might get let down
Gwenevere Abriel: This recovery thing is no joke. It ain't for the week. I gotta tell you, you know, people look at me and they look at me and they say, oh, you little buddy, a little cheerleader or something, you know, old one, but the
Gwenevere Abriel: Fact that right. I can sit with really big feelings. I feel like a badass.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because y'all. Y'all might know how to punch something
Gwenevere Abriel: But can you sit with fear.
Gwenevere Abriel: And really sit with it and not act out not throw something now call a name. The courage that it takes to sit with sorrow and not run away from it. That takes a kind of inner strength that you may not have really sat with
Gwenevere Abriel: For big pieces of your life and you're doing it now, because you can't run away to the euphoria of a substance. I know you're still using marijuana, which I'll talk about some other time.
Gwenevere Abriel: But the biggest scape into heroin. That's the big one. So let's appreciate the progress that you're making
Gwenevere Abriel: That feeling that you just dipped into just now into sad.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is there a part of you that is grateful to have known that kind of love.
Jay: I don't you wanna start talking
Jay: I get let down with the world, the universe. I just don't see why she waited.
Gwenevere Abriel: He want to know why.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well that does kind of bring us to a philosophical question.
Gwenevere Abriel: You believe in a deity, like a god or is it like a karma thing like what do you rely on you have to think, how does this get
Gwenevere Abriel: decided, why didn't you said bad luck, like you have shitty luck. Like, how do you see how the world works, why do good things happen to her him and other things they get crapped on like how do you make sense of it.
Jay: I don't I try. I just
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: I imagine you've tried on structured religion right you've tried to cram it into formal religion. And did you end up kind of going no that doesn't work for me.
Gwenevere Abriel: Where did that formal religion was it Christianity or Catholicism was a Christianity. Okay. Where did it break down that it stopped making sense.
Jay: I mean,
Jay: Just the people that
Jay: I don't know how are you going to try to tell somebody else how to interpret something that on interpret the Bible. You know what I'm saying.
Jay: And I don't believe that God whispered, if anybody here you know I'm saying I think everything is just the way it's supposed to be.
Jay: And if I'm supposed to walk out the door and break my leg that's exactly what's going to happen.
Jay: Is something intervenes and later on down the road. I'm gonna break a leg. It was gonna break a break.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay that's outcome. Can we stay there because I could see some, some places that I could kind of kind of enter here.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's just stay there for a moment.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're if I'm hearing you correctly, it's you can accept that.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm going to walk out the door.
Gwenevere Abriel: I there may be steps there. I may remember to step correctly or I may not, and I may break my leg. You can do that much. Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: But go outside you shell.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is that right
Gwenevere Abriel: You still go outside. You walk out the door. You don't know if you're going to break your leg.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, so you can see the behavior in walking outside and trusting, I'm assuming, basically.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're going to be okay. I know you're saying, I won't be okay. But if you were sure if you're more sure that you're going to break your leg, you probably wouldn't go out that door. You probably do something to
Jay: More of it. If you're having this conversation in your head. It's going to drive you crazy.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, let's go around.
Jay: I think that I think that we determine what's going to happen to us by the choices that we make right now.
Jay: You know I'm saying you're making a 5050 chance
Jay: Pick up his pen.
Jay: That could create a butterfly effect to who knows what.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yes, yes. Okay. So, and I do have a destination in all my ramblings I promise I'm trying to teach something and I'm going to make my way back. So here it is. We all agree that walking out the door has a risk of the butterfly effect. We don't know what it is.
Gwenevere Abriel: And we also know that picking up the pen.
Gwenevere Abriel: has an effect. Those are behaviors, you'd both agree to agree. Those are behaviors. Can we can we move back even earlier to a behavior which is
Gwenevere Abriel: A thought so sit with that for a second.
Gwenevere Abriel: If I
Gwenevere Abriel: Think I'm going to walk outside our night thinking it before. I'm actually walking outside
Gwenevere Abriel: Now we do routines things. So we might not be thinking too much like we automatically might lead a cigarette, where it's like, it's so ritualized but you did actually have a thought it was an automatic one and it was a bit unconscious, but it still came from here, didn't it
Gwenevere Abriel: Now this is the part that I want to see if you have been with me. Do you believe that the thought alone.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is a behavior.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, far out so
Gwenevere Abriel: Can changing your behavior thought
Gwenevere Abriel: change what you do in the world, as in where I walk out the door. What I do with the pen.
Gwenevere Abriel: Can change my thinking change my behavior.
Gwenevere Abriel: So,
Jay: You have, you have to catch yourself in those thoughts.
Jay: That's
Jay: The hard part. That's what I've been trying to do. My whole life I've been trying to get over this for a long time, not just with heroin with math.
Jay: For alcohol. I have now called on for a long time and
Jay: That that's usually better train yourself to recognize what you're thinking. But basically you you've got to think about it. You know I'm saying that makes sense.
Jay: And that's where your conscience comes in and talks to you and tells you
Jay: You know it's making your decisions behind the scene everything. So everything so uniform. You do it so much that everything just comes natural.
Jay: So in order to change that you got to train your mind.
Jay: Like you said, a thought isn't
Gwenevere Abriel: That part. And I would add is I think maybe about 10 years, or maybe more, I would have agreed with you. I didn't have any of the somatic and the body awareness. It was like the body was just this thing that that my my my brain drug along just to make sure I ate and put clothes on.
Gwenevere Abriel: It was like nothing. It's like, what do I need this body, for it was all about this.
Gwenevere Abriel: But I don't think that anymore.
Gwenevere Abriel: I think my my brain is connected to my body.
Gwenevere Abriel: I think this has something to offer.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I think the quicker you tune into that hot face.
Gwenevere Abriel: It happens before your fancy thinking happens, I promise you.
Gwenevere Abriel: It knows danger before it has a word to describe the danger. That's why you're alive.
Gwenevere Abriel: It knows it instinctively threat response. I don't know what just happened, but my body just responded to threat. It does it instantaneously.
Gwenevere Abriel: The sooner you so you want to get all fancy up here you've got data going on in the body in the crunchy stomach type job fists clenched sweaty palms, whatever it is for you that's happening.
Gwenevere Abriel: Milliseconds, which to me is a long time before you have thing goes all the way up the amygdala, all the way up and if it bothers to make it all the way to a thought which
Gwenevere Abriel: If you're so flooded with fear and anxiety.
Gwenevere Abriel: You wanted to get to the thought so you you think the point of entry is a thought. But you could be in so much distress, the amygdala cuts it off and you won't make it to the, to the left.
Gwenevere Abriel: Hemisphere, or to the prefrontal cortex, which is the last one to come online. And that's the one that does this.
Gwenevere Abriel: Sequence. And if I do A, B, C, D, it will lead me to jail. It's the one that you want to rely on and I'm telling you, it's the last thing to come online.
Gwenevere Abriel: So I say let's catch the thing that comes online first and that's our body, our body is going to know there's a problem, long before your fancy brain is going to come up with a word to describe it.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's going to know something's up so the more you get into and this is what the rehab right probably didn't talk much about
Gwenevere Abriel: But that hot face. That's your key something. So this is what it would look like if it was happening right if I had if I was more attuned to my body. Now I have a fever senior group, but I do this, but
Gwenevere Abriel: It last week, even I said, or I think was my 9am 1pm yesterday.
Gwenevere Abriel: I said out
Gwenevere Abriel: My lymph nodes.
Gwenevere Abriel: So those are mine. I have I now know I get a, like a needles DP. So I know something important just happened when they sting.
Gwenevere Abriel: I kid you not. It's just the wildest thing and I go, something's going on and I soon as i feel that i i go intro selective I go in, where I go something important.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is happening, what is it that I just said, what is it, because I was in group. What is it that someone just said was I a phony. Was I a fraud. Did someone just say something
Gwenevere Abriel: Maybe I would have had a longing to finish, or maybe it was to be liked, or maybe it was to say something or get across the point was something really important just happen. I wonder what that was. But notice that it came after I felt it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's go to you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's go to a recent interaction. Let's go subtle, not the big heavy
Jay: hitters
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's go subtle. Let's go. Recently, sitting with mom.
Gwenevere Abriel: Recently with stepped out something like that where you maybe resisted getting into an argument. Let's just see if we can find one like that where there was a threat response of she's misunderstanding me or I'm about to get a criticism, can you pick up a little story recently like that.
Jay: Um,
Jay: Yeah, I mean, whenever my step dad asked me to help him hang the lights are no, he said, I'm going to give you a job to do, is what he told me
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. How did you feel. Soon as you said that
Jay: I was just like, Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: I know, but that's what you said, I want to know. And this might be the work is you got to investigate how it feels.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm going to tell you to track it back to deconstruct it most people get their body responds, as soon as they hear step down say this I as soon as they hear that sound coming from Step Dad. The body remembers that man's voice.
Gwenevere Abriel: And that shits about to go down. They know I versus I think the body remembers the intonation like one of them is going to be a lecture. One of them is going to create confrontation, the body knows that tone of voice it registers at different what the way he said it. I
Gwenevere Abriel: Did you have a stress response to you remember
Jay: Big idea that I remember.
Gwenevere Abriel: Your eye out for it.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's the work you want to find out the earliest sign of perceived threat that the body experiences because guess what, when you catch that much like the thing I just showed you with my lymph nodes, right.
Gwenevere Abriel: I can catch it and I can see I say to myself something important at stake if you don't like that one, you could say I have perceived threat going on my body is responding doesn't mean it's accurate and
Gwenevere Abriel: It might be responding to an old memory of something from
Gwenevere Abriel: Might be it's misinterpreting it
Gwenevere Abriel: But that's where our big brain can psychoanalyze that and say, oh, that's all dialed up because of my early trauma. This ain't nothing. This is just, he's just asking for some, I need to have relaxed muscles and be in a relaxed body.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then I'll think better
Gwenevere Abriel: faster, stronger.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'll be have a more
Gwenevere Abriel: Efficient brain, but it does start here.
Gwenevere Abriel: So over the coming week I kid you not, J.
Gwenevere Abriel: track it.
Gwenevere Abriel: As soon as you pick up the phone and look at a text want you to pay attention to how your body feels when it sees who the sender is
Gwenevere Abriel: As soon as you read the text. How does your body respond as soon as as soon as you hear your mom's voice and the different voices. She makes
Gwenevere Abriel: Yay versus
Gwenevere Abriel: You feel me
Jay: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, yeah. Sorry, I just kind of pretending. So pay attention to the different inflections of her voice, the volume of the voice and same with step dad.
Gwenevere Abriel: Are and okay the same let's start there.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're going to be a detective.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you and I together will uncover the mystery to find the core messenger that's going to give you the earliest sign of how to behave differently.
Gwenevere Abriel: Most people Jay are not paying attention to me what percentage is my body compared to my head like massive there's so much more data going on for some people, they're they're doing this and they don't realize they're doing this.
Gwenevere Abriel: There are there there little toes are scratching up or this
Jay: Left to
Jay: I'm UVA law.
Jay: Yeah, like my mom will be like all stop. I'm like,
Jay: Dude just it's like a
Jay: It's like a what you call it.
Jay: I don't know, call it
Gwenevere Abriel: You can call it a lot of things. Jay, but I'm more interested. I'm less interested in a label labels.
Gwenevere Abriel: Are followed by like a period. And we're, we're done talking about it. I'm more interested in when you're doing this, when are you doing it more when you're around mom and I'm more interested in how this helps you to deal
Gwenevere Abriel: With the interaction with someone who is it and I want to know what is it doing to help you. What is it helping with because it is a solution for a problem.
Gwenevere Abriel: I want to know what the problem is. Notice you said anxiety in order for you to have anxiety in your brain. The body has to be in perceived threat if you're talking to your mom. There is perceived threat and I want to know what is
Jay: It, everybody. I don't like being around people and antisocial.
Jay: That's not
Jay: If I don't know you like
Jay: You know, then I'm not comfortable
Jay: You know,
Jay: Even my grandparents, my, my step dad's parents and even still now.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's a period that's the end of it, but not for me. I want to know more about it. I want to know the actual perceived threat, your body
Gwenevere Abriel: Is getting you ready for danger. It's trying to cope. It's trying to self soothe and get you ready because something bad's about to go down and I want to understand that more
Gwenevere Abriel: Because people are work we're dangerous we lie we hurt you. We let you down. We betray me physically. I mean, we were dangerous we creatures. So, I get it.
Gwenevere Abriel: But I still want to understand the first inclination and registering
Gwenevere Abriel: A little bit more with this person, a little bit less with this volume, the way they were talking or if I noticed I wasn't moving as much that might be where you start. I noticed I wasn't moving as much when my mom left the room and she was in the kitchen.
Gwenevere Abriel: I want you to investigate your own response. How are you responding differently. Even subtly to different people in order for you to cut hair.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're doing something to modulate that movement because you're going to still you're in order to cut, you're going to have, you have to I've cut hair, you got to be steady. Oh.
Gwenevere Abriel: So you're doing something you pay attention to.
Gwenevere Abriel: And how it changes.
Gwenevere Abriel: Start start there. That's my my
Gwenevere Abriel: My invitation is to start there.
Gwenevere Abriel: Talk to me.
Jay: Know,
Gwenevere Abriel: So the word you were probably you may have been looking for the word compulsive
Gwenevere Abriel: Or an obsessive behavior. I don't know. But the way I think about people because I like to think of people as an adaptive that you've adapted a particular coping skill or solution to a perceived problem or threat. I like that works better for me.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm interested in what the perceived threat is and more interested in that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Versus
Gwenevere Abriel: Just the label. Like, what do we do with a label. WHAT'S THAT SUPPOSED TO DO WITH US. There's no movement. There's no girls, what do you do with a label.
Gwenevere Abriel: Nothing.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're not a label.
Jay: Mark frozen. I don't even know where this conversation.
Gwenevere Abriel: I can bring us back.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, I think I'll pull up the anchor.
Gwenevere Abriel: So you did want today to be about
Jay: Using the tools.
Gwenevere Abriel: Taking tools and putting them into
Gwenevere Abriel: Action right
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, now we're both frozen. Hmm. I think our
Gwenevere Abriel: Can you hear and see me okay hear and see me, I'm doing away.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah. And we're back. Okay, so let's let's tether back to the origination. I want to be able to put this tools I've learned into action.
Gwenevere Abriel: Today,
Gwenevere Abriel: I would like you to put into action. If you're willing
Gwenevere Abriel: A paying attention to your body's response to social encounters, and that includes looking at a text hearing the Phone Vibrate it starts that early like even knowing I'm about to have a social interaction.
Gwenevere Abriel: It can happen very fast or your eyes wake up and you're like, oh, I don't have to talk with people today will have to meet customers today.
Gwenevere Abriel: I've got to walk out into the kitchen or may see someone, it happens very fast. As soon as consciousness hits us
Gwenevere Abriel: Or sometimes even in our dream life. I'll have to interact with people pay attention to how your chest feels your gut, your arms, your legs, your head, your neck, your back all of it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Be a detective and feed us information I need to know what it is. You might benefit from knowing what those early signs are because then guess what, then you can use the prefrontal cortex, because you can think things through that skill you already have, which is
Gwenevere Abriel: I think through the negative effects. And then I remember I'm proud of my attitude. I'm proud of the hard work I'm doing I'm proud that I'm sitting on 300
Gwenevere Abriel: Bucks and not all about the blank. This is cool. I like who I am. And look, I like it every day. I'm kind of liking myself more
Gwenevere Abriel: How you doing,
Gwenevere Abriel: What emotion. Are you having right now.
Gwenevere Abriel: Do you know
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, let's see if we can label it cuz me, what is it what I was like, This man what emotion. Would you say I have
Gwenevere Abriel: Well,
Jay: Hello.
Oh,
Jay: I'm listening.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. Okay, well I'm gonna help you out. I don't work like this chill good content. Thank you. Right, excited
Gwenevere Abriel: Curious board.
Gwenevere Abriel: Relaxed.
Gwenevere Abriel: Good.
Gwenevere Abriel: You said good
Jay: You said good was a
Jay: Good.
Gwenevere Abriel: I shouldn't have said that one. It's not an actual feeling word
Jay: Here you go.
Gwenevere Abriel: You are cutting out
Gwenevere Abriel: It's not actually my frozen like this frozen.
Jay: Oh,
Gwenevere Abriel: Take yourself off video or
Gwenevere Abriel: Take yourself off video for a couple minutes.
Gwenevere Abriel: Hi.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm going to take you off video so that I can maybe hear you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Check it. Check, check.
Jay: Check, check.
Gwenevere Abriel: Check, check, check.
Gwenevere Abriel: Check out line and I'll to
Gwenevere Abriel: Cash or check
Gwenevere Abriel: Check your tires.
Gwenevere Abriel: Jackie, sir.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, I think I'm going to call you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Don't think you can hear me.
We didn't